at this point I just have to deal with
it the best way I can and I think the
first step to that was giving bleep a
play time and then the second thing was
trying to learn the champions myself
which I was really really too slow on
like I didn't start until two or three
days ago
what is the first day of RIF rivals with
coverage presented by Omni slash I'm
joined right now by reckless from fnatic
talked quite a lot of things that are
going on in your life so first off
you're over here in North America let's
just start off with that have you
enjoyed this you got it I think Sunday
night so you've been here maybe for
three or four days how have you been
enjoying your time here America is
always nice
I think la is not my favorite place but
it's still pretty cool I think there's
just too many people here for me I
prefer the more like chilled out sports
but it's still nice and this time as
well we didn't have to bother with
what's English word for that like when
you enter the country you need to go
through a control but now they have some
sort of like electricals stance so it's
really quick so it was a pretty pleasant
trip and even though it's been different
for me since I haven't been screaming or
been playing on stage it's still like
I'm a part of the team you know hang out
with them and I get to play a little bit
more solo q so it's pretty nice so I
know this has been discussed over on the
European side but for a lot of North
American fans who might not have been
following what what is the reason in
which you are not playing on the
starting roster right now so I'll say
long story short the main reason is
because of the meta like champions that
are the strongest is in Champions that
I've played before and our champions
people plays consistently so we thought
it's just better for the team if we
place rather than me and instead of us
having issues with 10 champions and how
to implement them in the game the only
should we really have now is the synergy
between Hilda hippo which is a very easy
is easy fix in comparison to the one
that I would have so we thought that it
would just be better for the team and
hoped obviously that riot would fix it
but now there's been two patches plus
the mini patch of 8.13 or whatever they
call it and they still haven't really
done what I consider at least needed to
be done so it's a bit stressful because
I feel like even though I said before
like I'm a part of them I'm not really a
part of the team like I'm there you know
but I'm not really there and I don't
really feel like I am valuable anymore
like I can you know jump in in
discussions and give my take on the
macro but there isn't really much macro
anymore and I can jump in on discussion
and give my take on the matchups but the
matchups aren't mashup I play so I feel
like in a way I'm just in the way and
don't really want to bother them too
much but I obviously want to give more
than that I consider myself more
valuable in that so I'm trying my
hardest to like be useful by playing a
lot of solo queue at least so that if
for example a mentor comes back I'm
really in a good shape for the ad
carry's and two days or three days ago I
made it changed also playing some new
champions in the bot lane because I saw
this mini patch of 8.13 and they also
said that they're gonna hold off the
next patch for another two weeks and I
realized that I can't just keep like
continue playing ad carry's because at
this rate they might not even be back
for Worlds right so I have been trying
ever since to learn Swain Yasuo irelia
if I get my hands on her maybe some rice
some blood and maybe eventually I can
see some stage time again but how it
looks right now is I'm just gonna be
riding the bench and if they fix it or
not that's you know not in my hands
anyway so it sucks but we're fine as a
team like we're still winning and I
don't really think they need me during
this times but it just sucks because I
really thought I was what's more
valuable than what is shown or showed
out to me so I mean by no means an
analyst but I at least in North America
we're still playing a lot of ADCs so why
is there not an option of sort of
swapping your blippo out depending on
what you guys want to accomplish in that
game so in our heads ad carries are just
worse
tt at least I I think most people would
agree there's probably some teams that
either feel like they just can't play
the other stuff like they don't have the
luxury like we do to swap in another
player so they just paid here anyways or
they actually believe that they are
better but usually those teams are not
the best teams so we personally at least
feel like a Tijeras or is worse and if
you play like a good mate or a good
booster into an ad carry then the major
the booster will have so much more
impact that it becomes just way too like
unbalanced so we've completely like
given up on the idea of playing an ad
carry both lane and only ideas we have
right now is potentially playing me for
a funnel game or me for kind of the
orangie style where I go on a side Lane
in a really good matchup and get like
some impact from there but how it looks
right now is just playing ad carry's
kind of int and we just prefer not
having one we don't really feel like we
need one so yeah that leaves me out of a
job I guess which is not that great
obviously but yeah I still wanna be
around so I don't really feel like oh
I'll just go home and then if ad carry's
ever come back they can give me a call
you know I don't really feel like that's
right move either because I know then it
will be really hard for me to like come
back into the team so I need to stay
within the team in a way I need to you
know show my face I need to be there
every day with them so that if by any
means comes back it's a very smooth
transition it's not like oh I haven't
seen you for two months what's up you
know so yeah it's very stressful but
what can I do honestly like it's just
out of my control so I need to deal with
it so you you think right needs to fix
this right now that it's broken that
it's not because I talk I've talked to
some 80 carries who feel like it's in a
good place right that they like the Flex
date they don't think that ad carries
are universally worse that there are
certain matchups where certain ad
carries are better where characters like
Caixa can still be played and it's not
it's you can have like a versatility
there's an option right you can play an
ad carry maybe a smaller pool of ad
carries but now you can also play some
more more unique champions like mages a
bruiser
but you disagree with that new think
write needs to fix this is what it
sounds like well actually that's
probably the vibe most people have
gotten from me but I actually think it's
pretty cool the the way they have
changed the game like I still believe
that ad carry's are not in a good spot
so it's not like I'm just sitting out
for no reason like I actually believe ad
carry's are not the way to go right now
but I don't mean by that that riot
should like fix it back because I
actually think it's a lot of fun to play
the other stuff it's just really hard
for an ad carry player who's been trying
to perfect the role and the very few
champions that have been shown over the
years to go from this to just ten new
champions and be good at them instantly
I think that's pretty much impossible
task of any player and especially cross
Educare players were always been very
like tunnel vision on what we need to do
to win the game so whenever we're for
example how to fill in so like you were
usually struggling or if you put us on a
champion that we haven't paid before
we're like completely clueless so it's
just kind of like the wrong roll to make
that change for and I think if it was
for example slower it would be fine like
if you you know still had like like
let's say before you have 1080 care so
you could play and now you have zero but
I think instead of that if they just
made it so like you went from 1080 cares
to five and then five new champions I
could still play that would be easier
and then I could continue playing and
learn while I was playing ad carry's but
how it is now is just I went from being
able to play 1080 carries to none and
having to learn ten new champions which
I just can't physically do in the time
period that I had so we had a couple of
options in the beginning which was young
you know what we're doing now for
example people or continue playing with
me but learning me in the funnel but we
felt like funnel was not that great we
tried it in week one with caps and even
though we felt like I should have been
the one playing it it was still not
optimal way of going I think most teams
agree by now that like funnel is very
exploitable and it looks good on paper
but most of the time you doesn't work
out because you need to play perfect for
it to work out so we kind of gave up on
that idea and then you know we came to
the conclusion it's just better tell the
champions but it was better at that so
try to give me the time but then we also
wanted to keep me on playing ad carry's
because we thought that maybe
eight-point 12 or 8.13 would be the
patch that they just you know flip it
completely back because there was so
much backlash from the community but
then they didn't really do anything
about it so at this point I've just
given up like I've I've accepted that
this is probably gonna be around for a
while so my plan now is to change my
solo key priorities from ad carry's to
non ad carry's so that at least I'm
valuable in some way like even though
I'm not playing I can at least give my
input on how Swain is played or how yes
we paid especially in a boat lane
because before is much more like
orientated in his top top lane way of
thinking so if I play a lot of Swain
boat for example I can give him at least
in my mind good insight on how he should
approach the laning phase so what's
interesting to me is because I still
stands out to me you say there are zero
viable ADCs like you said there's like
tant no you're good like you said
there's like the sign of maybe 10
bruisers mages etc you think there are
zero in North American eyes this is a
legitimate question in North America we
see a DC's all the time do you think
that's just a failing on North America
to adapt to the medic is theoretically
like all the ad C's are playing are
useless essentially or at least not as
as good of an option as if they just
picked a major a bruiser in that same
setup I think some ad carries like in my
mind at least Lucien is the best because
it doesn't have any scaling whatsoever
you base for Cutlass and you're good to
go
astral is like the other one but that
would be more of a passive approach and
I don't think there'll be new games and
then cases like the third baptize has
really bad laning phase so our solution
is like the only ad carry I would even
consider in the first place but what we
realized is that when we play a player
that is really good at these majors and
bruisers like people even if they are
playing Lucien we are winning most of
the games so what I think is happening
around the world for the most part when
it occurs are seeing successes that
they're playing against first time
Vladimir where first time Swain on stage
like an ad carry player doing these
things and then he's just like running
it down so I think once people get
really good at the majors and bruisers
if the game stays this way then ad
carries will just completely fall out
unless used in a funnel situation and
I feel like funnel is also something
that might slowly fall out because it's
just too easy to exploit it so in my
mind at least if they don't do anything
about it which they don't seem to want
to do they kind of seem to want to keep
it this way it will just completely
disappear once people figure out how to
play majors and bruisers good so that's
what I'm at least gonna do so that I can
alright no you're good I what is this
like for you cuz you are a player that
has that really wants to play and we
talked about a messiah that you had
considered taking a step back retiring
taking a break ironically now you are
are taking a break essentially right
very reminiscent to me we did that
interview with doublelift he took spring
off last year just to take a break so
I'm very curious if this is something
that is enjoyable to you it's like a
nice time to break or if it's just like
really frustrating for you I think it's
really frustrating because of how we're
doing it like if for example I could
actually take a break a break which
means go home to Sweden or do anything
that I would actually like wanna do
other than playing then I would probably
be in a much more better spot if I were
to like come back at some point but the
way we're doing it now is that I'm still
with the team right and I'm constantly
playing soloqueue I'm with them a burden
every day right so it's not like I
actually do anything different right now
than if I would be playing so it's
really frustrating and really stressful
because I have all this like like drive
within me to to play the game and show
what I can do but I can't really do
anything with it like I can play some
solo queue but that doesn't get me
anywhere right so it's very frustrating
and I was actually thinking about having
a talk with Joey about it after revivals
because if I'm not really like of any
help then it would probably be better
for me on an individual note to at least
get like a week or two to reset and then
get like a more healthy mindset when I
come back but we haven't really had that
talked yet like we've kind of just
assumed that they're gonna fix it but
now we're three weeks and I think
without me in the team and I'm kind of
just coming along
not really
not really being like a vocal point
within the team so I think they would be
just fine without me I mean they've
shown that there have been just fine
without me so maybe the best would
actually be for us to have me you know
actually take a break but it feels so
forced like I don't really want to force
it either you know I actually want it to
be something I want to do or something
that team wants me to do not just like
well I don't have a job now so let's
just go home because that's that's wrong
I think it has to be from the team so I
would like at least to talk to Joey
about it and see what it feels but yeah
right now I'm not not that useful so it
could be something to consider do you
feel because it's interesting you said
you like you think this man is cool and
interesting that it's okay that there's
not marksmen here do you feel any sense
of resentment towards blippo fnatic riot
because this is a situation that is out
of your control
you can't play you want to play I would
imagine it's kind of hard not to feel
frustrated in these moments you know so
since I was the one to suggest I was
using bleep oh I obviously don't feel
any resentment towards him or fnatic
because they completely trust me with my
feelings so since my feelings were that
he should play I didn't really have any
like issues there obviously I feel a lot
of resentment towards riot because I
think they handled this very poorly but
at the same time I know other roles have
gone through the same thing so it's not
like it's happening for the first time
in history of League of Legends and
everyone's just full panic mode this is
something that happens regularly and
they often lis screw things up with
patches so for me it's just something I
wasn't ready for I guess so maybe for
the future I should spend less time
playing any carries in soloqueue maybe
more more time playing other roles so
that if by any means these kind of
things happen again I have more of a
champion pool than 1080 carries in
Jannah which was legit my champion pool
before these changes so that could be
like a change I could make but as you
said yourself like this was religious
out of my control and something we
didn't see coming so at this point I
just have to deal with it the best way I
can and I think the first step to that
was giving bleep a play time and then
the second thing was trying to learn the
champions myself which I was really
really too slow on like I didn't start
until two or three days ago but once
again I thought they would instantly
swap it back in a 2012 or 2013 so it
took me longer to accept the
circumstances than it probably should
have but now we're here and they're
winning without me I'm having decent
success with the new pics in soloqueue
and I kind of feel like the game is more
fun again so it's not like the end of
the world I just feel like I have to
find a better place than following the
team around and not really being a part
of it because that's not gonna help
anyone not gonna help me nothing can
help the team so I think we just have to
have a discussion about it and obviously
I don't wanna bring it up now because
now it's reached rivals time its win
time so I don't want to be in the way I
even sit in another room while they're
screaming because I don't wanna you know
bother anyone but definitely have to
wave rivals once we get back to Berlin I
will have a discussion with Joey and see
what we can do to either make me more
useful or if I could for example take
some time off to to rest and come back
stronger than if I would just sit in
burden and play so you you know this is
kind of a random question but I know you
guys talk a lot have you especially now
that you're here had a chance to talk to
doublelift about any of this stuff and
like get his take I mean I very curious
like what his opinion would be and sort
of what that conversation would look
like so we talked a little bit earlier
today but it wasn't really that deep it
was more just he was asking me why I
wasn't playing and I said well we don't
play it cares anymore as you know
because we screamed him during one of
these days so they knew already
beforehand that we weren't playing with
me and then he said well for us it's
completely fine we have had a lot
success with standard sort of
compositions so I think we just have
very different ideas of what will get
you the win so I think for for them or
for him specifically he feels like he's
just so much better than one else it
doesn't matter and for me I feel like
kind of similar but once it really
matters you know once you play against a
good team then I don't think I can pull
through and I'm not sure how he would
feel about that like let's say he paints
orangey right now if you feel like you
could pull through I'm not sure what the
answer to that question would be but I
personally feel like at least if I were
to play an ad carry right now against a
really good
I will not help my team I will be a
liability and I will give free kill
every time Nocturne wants to have that
free kill and I think that's just much
worse than playing anything else in the
game even like playing a tank or a
support ball team would be better off so
at least in my mind I'm going down the
right path and I'm pretty sure if you
ask him he's going down the right path
too and I wouldn't be surprised if they
continue you know having a lot of
success in na I think they are just that
much better than one else at least
judging of scrims and what I've seen in
the LCS so I think both of us will you
know remain successful but if the map
that doesn't change and both teams you
know go different paths to Worlds I
think worlds will be the the time to see
which idea was better and obviously I
would feel terrible if I stopped myself
out for an entire spread they'd go to
Worlds play with people and then lose 0
6 and by the way the tournament goes 80
carries look to be the best and
obviously I would feel like shit but I
honestly can't say that this that's
gonna be the case if it would remain
this way I just don't see it happening
here's the experiment so fnatic and Team
Liquid play tomorrow if fnatic wins with
blippo in the bot lane then you tell
Peter he has to bench himself and they
need to find somebody else if doublelift
wins with as an ADC against that then
you have to come back and play because
it will have proven the ADC just off
that best of one game well we'll know
immediately which strategy is correct
right yeah
and no I mean at a messiah you could see
that like we were not the worst team by
any means like we were actually going up
pretty even to them so I think even if I
played right now we will be fine it's
just I'm trying to think longer than
just ref rivals because for me it
doesn't matter at all like honestly it
was kind of a joke that they open the
whole tournament with a nerf game like
that's kind of setting the tone rights
to be just like full troll no one cares
so I'm obviously very disappointed I
think it's in a way waste of time but
also pretty good for the team because
you get to scream the others I think the
stage games don't matter at all but we
have had about 12 or 15 screams by now
so at least we've got something for
coming here and I think the any teams
probably feel the same like they don't
care too much about the tournament I
mean you can say that you care all you
but in a month or two no one will even
remember what happened other than the
people who don't have anything else to
think about so I'm pretty sure any teams
also feel like the only thing you get
from this is the screams and in screams
it looked like our side is better than
their style so I wouldn't be surprised
if he feels like it was also the right
move to stop me out I just think yeah
he's so good that it doesn't matter for
him like he probably feels like if you
get Skyy solution one of these two then
he's gonna carry game if it doesn't get
one of these two then he lost but then
they're just too good and draft I'm
pretty sure that that's how he feels
because I don't see what else you would
play I have the kite an illusion I don't
think there's anything you can play
where you'll actually have a chance of
carrying a game I think guys you can do
it after two items and looshing you can
do it before two items I would say even
after but before it's like mainly your
strength and then for the rest I think
you're just gonna die to everything
maybe Astro will be like a safe pig but
as I said before passive approach you
play against Vladimir Swain rice yeah so
I really I'll have a free lane they take
over the game you lose so I don't think
he's gonna want to play that either I'm
pretty sure it's just ice illusion for
an entire tournament so your your
prediction would be that like in North
America Team Liquid with their good ADC
can just sort of bully their way around
but perhaps when they get to Worlds and
they play against much better
competition they might not be able to
sort of leverage the extra strength that
they have over the other teams yeah but
obviously it depends how the game state
remains I obviously don't feel like as I
said multiple times now like if the game
stays this way they just like he just
can't be the one to carry obviously if
like impact carries or Pablo the carries
then it doesn't matter how both n goes
but if the game is very even and the
difference is in here versus AV care or
bottom a University bottom Manor then if
one team as Swain another team has not
Swain then the Swain team wins so I just
I just think like yeah maybe in an ad
will be fine because all the teams are
really bad actually every team is really
bad other than liquid actually can't
think of a single team that is TSM could
be decent
yeah I think the same could be pretty
decent should make worlds obviously but
yeah other than that I don't think
anyone is anywhere near liquid so they
should have a free way to Worlds may be
free summer split this one and then he
can just play all the he cares he wants
but if the matter remains the same then
I don't know exactly what they're gonna
do about it but he did tell me though
that he's been pricing other stuff so I
don't think he's like all in ad carry's
I'm gonna rebel this and if the game
remains the same then we lose worlds I
pretty sure he's already like on board
with the idea of after Kai solution
there's a lot of other things that are
better than the next tier so ad carry's
did you see his Vlad game in the first
week I did see his battle game in the
first week and it was not a pretty sight
yeah yeah well hopefully that's unproven
with the last question just because you
brought this up you mentioned rift
rivals and it not being particularly
useful what if because I was think about
this during the first match I think it's
fun I liked the sort of way they'd open
the show when I liked the the a roof
even though I realized it's kind of a
bit of a joke what if the All Stars I
think has been flagging for a while
what if they replaced All Stars in the
offseason with rifts rivals so they just
did summer split like normal rift rivals
goes in the all-star space so maybe they
just don't do all-stars yeah that's
actually what we talked about yesterday
with the team when we heard about the
earth and - we twos we felt like they
were just like super desperate to make
rift rivals matter and the way to make
it matter is by either having super
serious games which they can't do or
having fun modes which they can do so
now they threw in some TV - sandy threw
in some earth to get people to remember
this tournament so I would definitely
agree like if you just remove this one
week of like randomness and you put it
in the offseason instead and you can run
your fun slash Series tournament or
whatever you want to call it in the
offseason kind of like last year but you
add a little bit of fun modes then I
think that would be great
honestly I feel like that would be the
most optimal way of doing things but I
know how riot or about these things like
once they set something in stone it's in
stone like there's no way of changing it
so I'm pretty sure they're gonna stick
with the rift rival schedule
it always sucks for a team that has to
travel like I'm sure they any teams felt
it last year too when they had to go to
Berlin for a week
don't get anything go home be jet-lagged
and everything just sucks so we have
that this year I think it's okay because
our schedule is not that bad for next
week but for someone like g2 has misfits
it sucks like misses get to Washington
for games and these four games or maybe
even five don't matter at all four
worlds or for the summer split so they
just get free view of what she wants to
do and then g2 comes back kind of
stressed out tired of everything and
misfits have been practicing for like
ten days straight so I think it's not
that great to put in the middle of a
split that potentially you know changes
like your perception as a pro player
like if you make worse or not that's a
big deal obviously g2 should be fine in
this case but they might not always be
you know maybe next year there's ref
levels team two performed like pretty
decent in like let's say spice for
example you know they really need to get
the world's you know they don't look
good at all so they need all the wins
taken yet in the summer split and this
is obviously not going to help them you
know they're going to show exactly what
they want to do which sucks everyone can
say that whatever they want to do sucks
but it's not going to help them win a
summer split like they get just a week
of nothing five games to show every team
that's gonna play against them we are
actually paying a sum next week so it's
just you know not helpful I think they
would be much better off in our matchup
if they didn't go then if they went and
that's not how it should be right it
should always be going should be
valuable and not going should be bad for
you as a pro player but how it feels
with referals oftenly is that going is
bad and not going is good so I would
like them see me to like to see them
make a change like you suggested but as
I said before I know how they feel about
these things very good well wreckless
thank you so much for the extensive
interview get to sit down and sort of
see how things are going with you
is there anything that you would say to
any of the fans out there hmm I don't
really know what actually yesterday I
heard about some reddit thread about me
can you rely to me I was busy
I missed it his fourth of July I was
trying to spend time with family and
friends yesterday do you know of any red
reddit thread about me no so like
basically what I did after my site or
during a messiah was that I cut out
social media because I felt like it was
changing the way I saw things like I
lost a lot of confidence and I started
changing my opinion about what pics I
was playing and like losing trust in my
teammates it was just not a helpful
situation to be reading what the fans
were saying
so after a Massiah kind of like dropped
the whole idea of actually reading it in
the first place which really sucks
because I know there's a lot of people
out there that write nice things to me
and that gets me going but it just it
doesn't even out like all the bad stuff
I get in comparison to the good stuff is
just it's too unbalanced so I felt like
I had to cut it out and I heard like two
or three days ago that there was
something going on so I don't really
know how I feel my relationship with
with the fans right now but at least the
ones that care for me and write these
nice things obviously I feel really
happy to have you there even though I
don't get to play it's nice that people
support me
and to those that don't want to support
me and just want to you know go crazy
whenever something doesn't work out my
way I would like to say the f-word but
let's just stick with I'll try to prove
your own much-much class here thank you
reckless so much for the interview for
everyone else you can check out the rest
of my coverage of all things eSports
right here on my youtube channel look
that interviews done
I don't need slash supported it that's
really cool
appreciate those guys a lot you know
what I would appreciate there's a twitch
link in the description it's twitch link
in the description it's my twitch
channel try to grow that you might have
already subscribed to my youtube channel
but go hit that link and then follow me
there by the way I take your Amazon
Prime's too if you're interested that
but go follow me on Twitch so that you
can check out some of the new live
coverage and cool stuff that I'm trying
to do over there as well and again
thanks so much to a massage that was
really really nice to them